Hi guys! I want to dive into a quick bonus video for you
here! A common question on the course has been, how do I
show a loading progress bar, on Unity?
Most of our levels have been so small in data, that the loading
is almost instantaneous, but if you've got large music files
or large assets. Of course, as you know from playing your consoles
or playing your PC, levels can take quite a while
to load. So, rather than showing you the solution, I'm going
to show you how to find the solution for yourself. So, I would
Google for something like this. "Loading progress unity".
So, looking at the second answer here in Google, "Progress of
loading level." If I load that one up, just the same as the tab
I had open, you'll see the code here. Now,
you don't have to use exactly this code, and we also don't need to worry about
yield return. Now, what that means, the bit that I want to
tell you, is that you can poll for
the progress of the loading level, like this. What they're doing
is, they're saying "Application.LoadLevelAsync"
and then providing the Level Index there. They're
storing that result as a variable
in something called Async. Now, the variable is of type Async operation.
Let's look at that in the scripting manual. It has a few
different variables on that, and one of them is progress,
which is a read only float, between 0 and 1.
OK, so what you can do here, is you can say
you can make a call to this, and then,
they're going around a loop here saying, while it is not done,
notice the not there carefully, while async
status is not, is
Done. And that is done is a property of the
async opearation data structure, which is here.
Then, we go ahead and just query
async.progress, which is that float.
And then, we set the slider, the UI slider
to that value. So, through that sort of method you
can get yourself a level load. Of course, you could load levels in the
background with this, as well, but you need to be careful of the impact
that has on the performance of your game. So, it depends on what stage of the game,
as to whether you want to be loading levels in the background or whether you
simply want to give the user some feedback but it's certainly a good idea
to use something like a UI slider, to tell people
how much more loading they need to endure. So, I hope that's helpful!
That points you in the right direction. Go off and implement Loading Screens,
if your game takes more than a second or two to load. So,
see you soon!